Reducing the number of input variables for a predictive model is referred to as dimensionality
reduction. Fewer input variables can result in a simpler predictive model that may have better
performance when making predictions on new data. Perhaps the most popular technique for
dimensionality reduction in machine learning is Singular Value Decomposition, or SVD for
short. This is a technique that comes from the field of linear algebra and can be used as a data
preparation technique to create a projection of a sparse dataset prior to fitting a model.

ˆ Dimensionality reduction involves reducing the number of input variables or columns in modeling data.
ˆ SVD is a technique from linear algebra that can be used to automatically perform dimensionality reduction.
ˆ How to evaluate predictive models that use an SVD projection as input and make predictions with new raw data.

Dimensionality reduction refers to reducing the number of input variables for a dataset. A
popular approach to dimensionality reduction is to use techniques from the field of linear algebra.
This is often called feature projection and the algorithms used are referred to as projection
methods. The resulting dataset, the projection, can then be used as input to train a machine
learning model. Singular Value Decomposition, or SVD, might be the most popular technique
for dimensionality reduction when data is sparse.

Sparse data refers to rows of data where many of the values are zero. This is often the case
in some problem domains like recommender systems where a user has a rating for very few
movies or songs in the database and zero ratings for all other cases. Another common example
is a bag-of-words model of a text document, where the document has a count or frequency for
some words and most words have a 0 value. Examples of sparse data appropriate for applying
SVD for dimensionality reduction:
ˆ Recommender Systems
ˆ Customer-Product purchases
ˆ User-Song Listen Counts
ˆ User-Movie Ratings
ˆ Text Classification
ˆ One Hot Encoding
ˆ Bag-of-Words Counts
ˆ TF/IDF

SVD can be thought of as a projection method where data with m-columns (features) is
projected into a subspace with m or fewer columns, whilst retaining the essence of the original
data. The SVD is used widely both in the calculation of other matrix operations, such as matrix
inverse, but also as a data reduction method in machine learning.