Reducing the number of input variables for a predictive model is referred to as dimensionality
reduction. Fewer input variables can result in a simpler predictive model that may have better
performance when making predictions on new data. Perhaps the most popular technique for
dimensionality reduction in machine learning is Principal Component Analysis, or PCA for
short. This is a technique that comes from the field of linear algebra and can be used as a
data preparation technique to create a projection of a dataset prior to fitting a model.

ˆ Dimensionality reduction involves reducing the number of input variables or columns in modeling data.
ˆ PCA is a technique from linear algebra that can be used to automatically perform dimensionality reduction.
ˆ How to evaluate predictive models that use a PCA projection as input and make predictions with new raw data.

Dimensionality reduction refers to reducing the number of input variables for a dataset. A
popular approach to dimensionality reduction is to use techniques from the field of linear algebra.
This is often called feature projection and the algorithms used are referred to as projection
methods. The resulting dataset, the projection, can then be used as input to train a machine
learning model. Principal Component Analysis, or PCA, might be the most popular technique
for dimensionality reduction.

The most common approach to dimensionality reduction is called principal components analysis or PCA.

It can be thought of as a projection method where data with m-columns (features) is
projected into a subspace with m or fewer columns, whilst retaining the essence of the original
data. The PCA method can be described and implemented using the tools of linear algebra,
specifically a matrix decomposition like an Eigendecomposition or singular value decomposition (SVD).

PCA can be defined as the orthogonal projection of the data onto a lower dimensional
linear space, known as the principal subspace, such that the variance of the projected
data is maximized